well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so at the end of this I'm going to
present a very very bizarre working
theory watch this whole video even if
you don't care about the beginning parts
you're going to need that information so
we're going to go through the
demographic information and we're gonna
talk about who these people are and how
we can identify them before they do
something hopefully and from that
working we're going to come up with a
working theory something you need to
know about this if you have seen the
jokes in the comments section about in
walks weirdo there was a time in my life
when if there somebody had a question
about political violence my phone would
ring it's it's my area of expertise that
I don't normally bring up my background
it becomes important tonight though okay
so we have 50 years of data from the
violence project and what is consistent
is early childhood trauma and sighting
incident know coping skills planning
phase begins now as we go through the
demographic information that I'm about
to present there going to be some
surprises there certainly were for me
stick with me I promise it's not going
where you think okay they're almost all
male almost and by almost I mean like
really almost like 95% and up almost all
melt recently they've almost all been
white but that's not true historically
from 2000 to 2013 the demographics of
mass shooters as far as race almost
perfectly matched the demographics at
the United States surprise I was
57% are single 22% are divorced or
separated 35% have an adult conviction
of some sort 62% displayed abusive
harassing or oppressive behavior 27% did
something that could be considered
domestic violence or stalking 77%
engaged in a planning phase that lasted
longer than a week
some of them lasted years more than 50%
leaked their plans they told somebody
they dropped hints or clues if somebody
tells you they're gonna do it believe
them okay more than 50% killed a family
member or intimate partner during their
spree
62% had mental health concerns there's a
footnote to this one what that means is
the FBI believed they were displaying
symptoms of depression or anxiety only
25% had a diagnosed mental illness of
any kind they studied other shooters
they didn't have an inciting incident
they had three to four stressors at once
and that that's an important variation
they prepared a kit they had tools that
they were going to bring on their spree
and they blended their grievances
you know they had personal grievances
they had government grievances they had
workplace grievances whatever they
blended it all together
that's the demographic information I
took this I parsed it down by what was
most common and this is the list I came
up with early childhood trauma and
citing incidents plural multiple
stressors multiple grievances they
studied others the planning phase in
which they dropped hints or clues they
had a kit and when we talk about the kit
you have to understand that it's bizarre
you know the shooter in Dallas that
didn't get anywhere he was an ex
infantryman and there's that photo of
him coming around the corner
if you hand that to anybody in the
military they would not think that guy
was in the military just going off of
the shoelaces alone they weren't
prepared for combat the kits aren't for
combat they're for something else some
quotes that I ran across that are very
relevant and they come from an FBI agent
who is in charge of studying pre-attack
behavior they have the desire for
omnipotent control that desire for
infamy and a variety ok cutting to the
chase
that's not political violence that's how
we're framing it right now because in
the last couple of years they've all
fallen into that niche this is not
characteristic of people engaged in
political violence in any way it's at
this point I realize I'm outside of my
scope so I called a fellow former weirdo
yeah you don't want to be my friend I
will call you in the middle of the night
ask you the most bizarre questions and
when I got him on the phone I started
reading in the list early childhood
trauma inciting incidents blended their
grievances against persons is what I
said slight variation there studied
others who did the same type of thing
spent a lot of time planning and would
drop hints or clues and they had a
prepared kit at this point he stops me
and he says yeah I know I know what they
do what do you want
cuz it's late he's not an expert on
political violence he's an expert on
serial killers
desire for omnipotent control if only
for a moment
seeking notoriety now that's unique but
there's something else in 1989 which was
the peak of the serial killer thing
there were 193 known serial killers
operating in the United States in this
decade the average has been about 40
huge decline at the same time we're
seeing a huge increase in mass shooters
this explains a lot a whole lot
it explains the inconsistencies with the
manifestos people who are really engaged
in political violence they're steeped in
theory they know what they're talking
about especially anybody that's gonna do
something this extreme when you look at
the manifestos coming from these guys
not so much fact the one from El Paso
was just rephrased Trump tweets really
but we've been looking at it through
that scope of political violence because
for the last two years or so that's what
it's been but they blend their
grievances they somehow find a way
found a way to match their personal
grievances with this ideology we're
looking at this all we're looking at
this as political violence and if we
deploy counterterrorism tactics and
counterterrorism strategies against this
it's gonna fail
we don't need to be talking to the
counterterrorism task force we need to
be talking about to the people who used
to profile Suba to serial killers that's
who we need to be talking to right now
because I'm gonna suggest that mass
shooters are more closely related to
serial killers than they are terrorists
we need to respond rather than react and
that's what happens in these cases you
know if there was a school shooting
tomorrow we know very well that on Fox
News you'd have a pun tent saying we
need to arm all teachers and janitors
and everybody gets gone and on CNN
they'd be saying we need gun control
because it's your reaction happens over
and over again we tried out the same
ideas nobody's responding nobody's
looking at all of the new data that's
coming in and and analyzing it I looked
online to see if anybody else had come
up with this little theory and yeah the
problem is they're they're outliers
they're they're people outside of the
norm and it's almost treated as a joke
it's not it's not a joke
this is this makes more sense than
anything else we need to change the way
we're looking at this we can't treat
them as political violence perpetrators
even though that's part of their their
their motive their stated motive their
personal reasons for doing it in their
behavior say otherwise
now I don't have any actionable idea on
that other than it needs a lot more
research and we may need to bring in
other kinds of people to look at this
and talk about it now as far as the
characteristics we know what they are
now okay hopefully you can spot this the
problem is I went to look up the way to
report this so I can tell you guys it's
different everywhere in some places it
varies by county
there is no there's no method of doing
this that is standardized in fact the
FBI has a tip line for it but it's their
standard tip line those people that are
just craving legislation start there
that needs to be fixed immediately
anyway as we're doing this we need to
remember we need to respond not react
it's weird right out walks weirdo anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
night